so I guess some of the things I said
were a bit controversial or led to some
comments on the last video okay I
haven't looked at the comments but you
know most most of the comments you're
alluding to have already been deleted so
yes affarin are commercial well you know
maybe just on my mind because we took
this airplane ride and we watched a
couple videos watch a couple movies
actually one was about Jane Fonda know
we were interested in this because of
her political involvement with the
Vietnam War and I wasn't interested
because I didn't really know much about
Jane Fonda at all I knew her I knew of
her more of just like a bimbo basically
I mean that's fine I mean she was an
actress she was a beautiful actress and
I knew there was something with her
political involvement so we watched this
and it got me thinking like how much how
how intelligent do you have to be to do
certain things in life and with Jane
Fonda it seemed like her involvement
both with acting and with being involved
in politics was really because of who
she was dating at the time and that's
how that you know this this documentary
was really like a vanity project for her
and it seemed that even from her
perspective she became the actress with
reputation that she had because of the
film director that she was dating her
that she no married to and then she also
had the involvement in politics that she
did have because of then her next
marriage was who she was married to next
right so there's no there's no criticism
of her in the movie this is on be clear
it's an implicit point but like her
career is made first by her father the
father and then by her first husband
good movie director and then by her
second husband that other people are
writing the script for yeah and I
thought was kind of oddly a reflection
of herself when she was talking about
her father not being a good father and
that he always needed a script to do
anything in his personal life like he
needed he needed somebody telling him
what to do and she never had a good
relationship with her father until they
had this movie together where they lived
out their issues with their relationship
and then came to some kind of conclusion
at the end of that so you know I wonder
I wondered last night you know how much
intelligence had to do with veganism
because veganism is in my opinion
inherently like political it's it's
inherently like something that you have
to be committed to or maybe I should say
it's more of an inherent moral
standpoint so like if you don't have
this moral fortitude
like moon and rock if you're not willing
to deal with whatever health problems
you have while staying vegan while
maintaining this moral character then
you're not gonna be able to do it so
that's kind of what I was thinking like
what is it about I know you had a clear
focus with your video you know like this
is your channel like I I want to be like
helpful with your viewers I want like
you know bring some some more discussion
but I understand you had you had a clear
like path that you were going down yes
this is your other question ask you as
once you just said so he's right inside
now because I'm gonna stop right away I
might forget my question but you know um
okay how much latitude do we really have
to accept someone as a medical doctor if
they're stupid well you know like it's
easy to say like oh well you don't need
to be an intellectual to be a medical
doctor or you don't need to be brilliant
or you don't need to be a genius yeah
isn't it really scary to be getting
advice from a medical doctor where
you're not confident at all in their
intelligence where they seem vastly you
don't need ya answer but one more
example because I've been in this
situation have you had to deal with in
general how do you the audience had had
to deal with a government employee at
the unemployment office job training a
career office places like that
some you know they have a little bit of
authority there or a bureaucrat but they
get to decide things but your case isn't
it really scary to be dealing with
someone's that and they are actually too
stupid to understand what's on your CV
or what your situation is like it's not
even that they're maybe they're evil -
it's none of their evil okay it's one
thing to say oh no you don't you don't
need to be smart to be a social worker
you don't need to be an intellectual to
be a government bureaucrat you don't
need to be intellectually a dietician or
a medical doctor I think it's really
really scary dealing with people in
those positions yes they're stupid and I
think that is invisibly parallel and
related to and connected to these
questions about how smart you have to be
to be oh yeah right and I liked what you
said yesterday in that video about the
authority figures in in your life and I
mean that to me is is really relevant to
my own experience in life that I was
somebody who you know was bowing to
authority figures that wasn't inherently
rebellious is it as a child and as a
young adult so yeah I mean it is scary
like that people are in charge if
they're not at a certain level of
intelligence or just know-how or knowing
what they're doing so yeah I mean like
I'm sorry if that's that came across as
I don't know controversial or something
but yeah how can it not be controversial
to call somebody stupid yeah right it's
just let's just anonymous I mean like
look it's controversial to call George W
Bush stupid yeah and I had face-to-face
conversation people who were george w
bush supporters and most of the times
they were honest enough you know at some
level they know with george w bush even
if you supported him or you voted really
really not right really not but
nevertheless yes it's always going to be
controversial to say george w bush is
stupid or to say okay i own it that i'm
not saying i'm sorry i'm saying
I wasn't good but I do think that I I
know like you said it kind of was derail
on your point but I do think that it is
sad that the content that's nothing
online that's people on beaches and
bikinis or you know making food or
whatever that that gets so many views
but like you said in in this newer video
that you recorded right it's this is how
it is that's what people are interested
in and that's what more views are going
toward yeah yeah I guess I mean really
sure were part of that though like I
never felt sad that people don't read
plate up so by the way I'm a critical
Plato I'm not saying this because I like
I'm a supporter of the philosophy of
Plato but nevertheless under readers I
don't feel sad that like the whole
population of Canada doesn't read Plato
what was heartbreaking and sad for me
was that the people enrolled in the
university in the Department of
Philosophy in the 400 level philosophy
of Plato course that they didn't replay
them that was sad and that impacted me
emotionally and in fact the professor
the professor wants broke down crying
and appoints argument that I just said
to him these kids don't read the book
and none of the other kids in the class
I've read the book so 400 level
specialized class you know and I
remember saying this face-to-face
through that guy's more or less wind
than I am further left you know he's not
quite a communist but out to that that
end of the more extreme ends but I
remember I was telling in the basic
facts what happened in Cambodia with
communism and why communism was a
disaster there and that America
supported time ISM and he was shocked
that he started complaining but why
doesn't everyone know this kinda like
why isn't this on the front page of the
newspaper so this was so shocking and
some wise in this apartment and again
what I said to him I'm really I remember
exactly what I said but what I said I
can hear a paraphrase that's like I'm
not upset that every one of the majority
of people don't read the history of
Cambodia the politics of Cambodia
what upsets me is I'm enrolled in a
university department Asian Studies
program or I'm at Oxford or Cambridge or
University
Viktor's onion-like specific you know
academic conferences and classes when
I'm in that room that's supposed to be
the people were devoted that they don't
read it and they don't know it yeah
moving the professors that upset so just
said my view does already presume you
know a certain kind of inequality yeah
yeah okay so going to this idea recent
video about you said that you said that
if you have positive aspirations you
will attract followers and for me
hearing that was was sad because I do
think you have had so many positive
aspirations with being involved in vegan
conflict and you have attracted
followers of course sure but as you say
you would like to publish a children's
story book and then still hasn't
happened despite you know you you have
had the story and you've had
translators by the way translators
volunteers who translate into Russian
and German and others yes yes yeah so
yeah so that's a little bit of a concern
that even though you have positive
aspirations it is kind of unclear where
that's going to funnel or whether the
followers that you have will lead to
something down the road and just on this
topic so I'm trying to make this like
really makes sense but so I saw like
again these just being on the airplane I
saw last week tonight with John Oliver
discussing NRA TV so this is a a channel
on TV for the National Rifle Association
and they have independent television
shows that are basically propaganda for
buying guns or supporting people owning
guns in America yeah and I think some
people think of vegan YouTube like
youtubers as this is our form of vegan
TV but we don't have that kind of
organization yeah
there is the group in Taiwan that does
have the supreme master TV channel and
if we could do something like that then
we would really have this tool for
propaganda for getting the message out
there yeah um and I'm thinking of this
too like I'm trying to piece all these
things together I also watched a
documentary about mr. Rogers and I saw
so many parallels when I was like
hearing about mr. Rogers view on
children's entertainment that you and I
both agree about that children's
entertainment needs to be better you
know we need to be teaching our children
useful information moral values with the
television that we produce with the
entertainment that we produce for them
and not just you know transformer is not
Batman and Superman not shooting games
and so on so I want there to be some
kind of vegan community like vegan TV
which you also discuss in this in this
other video that these are parts of your
aspirations that I I also I also want
these are things that I I also would
like to have and I think other people do
in the vegan movement but it's it's not
really happening and you can see it in
the fact that mood and rock got 40,000
views on this video and that they have
as many subscribers so like even though
I may have seen petit for me to make
that comment like you know that you are
not getting as many views as them or
whatever and I know as you say a lecture
about Aristotle is not going to get as
many views as somebody making smoothies
and doing exercise routines on their
other YouTube channels I know that I
know that but these are a small subset
of people vegans are a small subset of
people that want to make the world a
better place so why are you watching
videos that are just about smoothies and
exercise routines like can't you like
even if you don't agree completely with
eyes'll like why can't you you know
listen to what he has to say and
kind of incorporated into your life or
your set of beliefs that you have so so
that to me was what what was
disappointing and I don't know if it's
all vegans that watch their YouTube
channel or I do wonder like based on the
view counts that I see are people
watching like vegan youtubers that
aren't even vegan like are they just
watching it for entertainment value
because they think that we're crazy like
I it's hard for me to put my put myself
in that scenario like when I when I
think about of the other demi-monde on
YouTube like if there's an alt right
dumb Iman on YouTube
I don't go to just watch it for
entertainment value like maybe you'll be
watching a video that's controversial
and I'll you know I'll see it or hear it
or I'll click on something that's
controversial that doesn't even have to
do with veganism pekin ism at all and
that's true but I'm not like getting
involved in another Democrat I'm not
like watching all the videos by people
that only eat the carnivore diet and
maintaining this like subscription or
you know but it you know I do wonder
like how much of how much of this could
could be instead we're about vegan TV or
like just an affair there are people who
watch fitness videos just because
they're dressed in Fitness I mean so
there are people who now watch test bed
because they're women who want to have a
body like test bag and there are men who
watch it as pornography same was true of
freely before there were women who were
not vegan and we're not addressing the
moral purpose of veganism at all but he
looked at freelee's videos because they
want to have body literally and men who
watched it because it was erotic for
them so those are some big factors and I
mean the same is true with most of the
hit cooking shows I don't to me of you
mind numbingly boring to watch vegan
recipe videos week after week well I
mean sometimes yes sometimes we have
look there's a specific thing remember
we were making vegan cinnamon rolls yes
and it was like okay how else how are
other people making cinnamon rolls who
acted before a short period of time
we're comparing different videos of a
baking a specific thing there on a week
they says week after week to watching
these food channels is unbelievably
boring to me and a lot of it is about
the sex appeal of normally it's a woman
who's the bait used sometimes it's a man
who's the cook whatever yes so yeah
those are other things that kind of
intersect with with veganism um you know
none of these things are mutually
exclusive you can be interested in
baking and weightlifting or bicycle
riding and sex and also want to save the
planet and care about ecology and
getting politically organized and also
be interested in the more philosophical
and political aspects of what's going on
in veganism and debating the future of
the movement and how can we not holily
how can we be indifferent to the rise
and fall of the abolitionist paradigm in
veganism which happened just in these
couple of years you know what I mean
like there was so there are these
obvious questions in incredibly few
channels commenting on how can we be
indifferent to the fact that direct
action everywhere started off with an
inner pissed philosophy of having no
leaders and transformed into being
dominated by one leader so appointed
dictator for life and canceled the
elections and so on that's interesting
there's something like you know I mean I
don't know any other YouTube channel
like literally like those those two
issues they're huge issues abolitionism
as a paradigm and and DXE the political
transformation blue block maybe there is
one other youtube channel that's talked
about it but honestly honestly I think
there were zero so yeah I mean those
those are things where your perspective
nava Sydney she's in love with me and
she's also as a fan of the content I
understand your perspective like why
aren't more people watching this yeah
and then the other the other question is
why aren't more people getting inspired
by this and wanting to do something do
something positive but I mean but the
answer is they aren't right so I put it
on there yeah yeah yeah so I got to draw
my conclusion to move on yeah I'm never
gonna be 35 again people like do you
think and again all this stuff a lot of
things I came on here to say I was
really
about the first time I said them it
meant a lot to me to come out and talk
about dog castration and people feeding
you know beef to their pet cats so we
just had another controversy about that
a cheetah reported on raw meat being fed
to some some vegan activist dog it
doesn't matter you know vegans who buy
meat and feed it to their aunt when I
first came on YouTube of course it was
super passionate about engaging that
issue and having that debate ok well now
I've had it
like I'm now 40 do you think I'm gonna
keep doing that until I'm 60 I got it
looking next 20 years of my life
you think I'm gonna keep doing it alone
yes and you know I have other people to
make changes and do things that are
positive yes yeah and even someone like
Marvin is right in your videos you know
still be out it's not like you're less
content LBO and sure can see those
debates can see when you were passionate
about that never and when you know you
were thinking about these things and
influencing other people and also to be
influenced yeah well I don't want to say
it twice no one said ten times exactly
yeah and I totally agree and like
looking forward to what we're going to
do that in the next 10 years
you're I would really like what you say
with your video on community and I know
I just talked about this in another
video of yours that you know you want to
have a group of people that you can have
some semblance of community with like
common values that are shared and that's
you know we've we've had better
experiences with staying in touch with
people and getting in touch with people
who are actually of from China or yeah
you've you've kept in touch with people
that you only really know I met a couple
you know can you talk them for like 5 or
10 years even yeah so anyway I feel
hopeful more I feel more vocal about
what the world of Chinese in our
lifetime yeah sure right and I think it
might be even possible because of how
prominent veganism is
in Taiwan that we would be able to form
some kind of community or at least
assure life you know you talk about just
like having five to ten people with to
get to do to do project to do projects
like publishing a children's storybook
or maybe it's taking the story and
trying to get some kind of animation
made for it or some kind of cookie maybe
it's doing some other outreach projects
there is that may be also like
specifically I'd love to do an education
and outreach campaign you know I
mentioned on leather yeah you know be
great to do an education outreach
campaign on conditions of laborers you
know in all these things are great but
yeah I can't do it alone I mean it's
also true financially you know in the
email response that you were responding
to you know he was asking about your
making your own institution um that will
be more organized that would be better
politically and you know of course the
number one thing is time having the time
to get that involved and how that's
going to be affected by what we are
doing for the next ten years even the
next five years so if you're getting an
MA and PhD that takes a lot of time
that's just you know takes a lot of time
out of your life and also a lot of money
out of your life and what are you going
to be doing to earn money at that time
is this you know the organization is
this gonna be earning money or whatever
okay that that was just something that I
was thinking about that as we can as we
go forward right on you know what I
don't know like what what role would
this have if you were going to continue
making a channel where you repeat the
same thing that's like about feeding raw
meat to your dog or even just like
talking about having dogs like yeah I
mean we complain to each other all the
time
we can't just go for a walk in Victoria
without seeing people picking up poo
from their dogs and stuff you know we're
we're able to you know we we limit that
illusory we're not good if you decided
that you couldn't keep making videos
just repeating the same things you'd
probably still get viewers but um yeah
um I was just gonna say in that in that
email response or just see we're getting
comments
people were asking you have you ever
been involved with cube of truth have
you been right through approach have you
done - have you been to Verizon I don't
mind the question I hate it that people
use the question as an insult like you
know ask equated y'all get asked it as a
question don't insult me presuming you
already know the answer but yeah right
right yeah and this kind of rose into
like the issue of it being a meritocracy
and what what a meritocracy like of what
like what are you white merit or what
merit yes I remember when I first saw
your channel I think I've been vegan for
like I don't know I would say nine
months or something like that so it was
at this point where I had you know
gotten a diet down I had gotten you know
my beliefs down like this was something
that I really cared about and and what I
saw on social media with veganism was
telling me that to be more vegan to be
like the best vegan I could or you know
to really do something about this was to
go out and join protests Street protests
positions in history for this so it was
at that time that I actually like you
know I was looking at the vegan
subreddit every day training you know
I'm just I don't know trying to talk
with other people but even then I was
getting tired of what I was seeing on
right I was like I really want to see
people's like meals that they cooked up
I don't really want to see most of what
is shown on the vegan reddit but then I
saw the first video that I ever saw of
yours was was posted there by somebody
and it was protest won't change the
world or something like that yeah yeah
so I just wanted to say use my critique
of street protests as a method of
activism in contrast to other forms of
education organization yeah briefly yeah
yes yeah no no I just mentioned what it
was about getting out there and being a
protester on the street and just how
does that play into being vegan for me
at the time like uh when I was thinking
like I had joined groups that
there wasn't a lot going on in the
Detroit area but there were four
protests and I was like oh maybe I
should go to a fir protester I should do
something Toronto is close enough I
could have gone to the Toronto Pig save
or you know got involved with with some
organization like that but basically
listening to that I was like I don't
even know if that would be the best use
of my time and effort to go to a street
protest and what what can I do and when
I saw your videos I mean I was like that
was kind of blown away I was like you
know um you know what Gary Asti had been
quite an influence on me and and my
ex-boyfriend like that was really what
what convinced my ex-boyfriend to go
vegan having this this guy basically
yell at him that you're a piece of [ __ ]
unless you're being so like seeing your
your response to that was was was
definitely changed my mind about how I
should proceed was with having veganism
as a moral character but part of my
moral character so yeah like it is a
question what are what are people's what
what are what is their idea of you
having merit as a vegan leader and I
think some people do think that James
ASPI has more more more merit for being
a more a leader in the vegan community
because he has done so many lectures
that he's you know been to all these
events like you say you write nation
rising and he gets paid I mean say he is
you know I we don't really know where
his money comes from he seems to van
wealthy his whole life I'm not
criticizing him but if you just listen
to his life story there was a lot of
money for him to spend and go skiing and
to do cocaine while skiing so but if you
actually listened to Doug was life story
that he was snorting cocaine while
skiing in British Columbia and he's
traveling all around the world his whole
life stories he's have a lot of money
and drugs and these kinds of pastime so
I assumed he was basically born
had other source of wealth but
nevertheless this is also I mean he is
paid to go around the world and give the
same lecture and again and attendees
right attend these events as it is yeah
right and he's a celebrity for what
seriously yeah no I mean I know your
videos are more interesting for sure
like when you are talking with someone
who you disagree with like that you know
I mean this is all to say like I I agree
with you but I'd like other things that
I also wanted to like talk about so yeah
no no I mean like I have already
basically talked about it but I I think
there is some hope and you continuing to
make children's stories like I I think
that's that's something that long-term
could be something that you do because
you have such a natural talent for
curating let me contrast that to another
one of the criticisms that's been
written in to me explicitly some people
said so again maybe this is one like
three people but still several people
said that I'm overreacting by Cameron
about the leaders in veganism who
happened to be on the Internet right so
that's not just James asked me but also
people like Gary Francis a owner who do
publish books then I'm just saying they
don't exist out there that somehow
there's a real world of veganism
separate from and opposed to what you
see here on YouTube and I disagree with
that so I'm just saying this is not a
relevant to what you're saying if you
talk about getting organized and doing
children's storybooks
getting organized with who getting
support from whom to do what these are
my contemporaries this is the movement
this is the talent pool we have to work
with and you know I think I've exhausted
the English language audience like I've
reached everyone I could possibly reach
in Australia english-speaking Europe
Canada the United States but it's really
false we'll be able to say to me as they
wrote it they did and seven people wrote
in saying like no no you're just getting
disappointed because the people who
happen to be on the internet like
and stuff yeah well through my critique
of durianrider and James ass Viet Gary
Yourofsky and Gary Francia and so on
I've reached that audience and it's for
that reason that I'm right
or have some justification to be
pessimistic about well Who am I gonna
work with on that storybook project or
to make that happen
I don't have people I don't have a team
of people who can take that forward out
of ten people who can lobby the school
board with me or any of these other
projects I want to do I don't have one
person you know so I just say the
pessimism about that is real and it's
not an abstraction it's not a stereotype
it's based on real individual people in
their hundreds and in their thousands
and that is the generation that is the
talent pool I have to work with so yeah
the in a sense this is the exception
that proves the rule the storybook
project is good only in as much as I can
do it totally myself I don't do it I'm
anyone else so in that I could agree
with you yeah I got faith in me working
alone right but it also it's like the
exception that proves the rule it's like
right that's the kind of thing I'm
moving towards because I don't even have
five other people I can I can do a
project I don't even want to clap on a
video with or anything you know yeah
yeah and a couple people that were
friendly to me you know shout-out to
foot soldier foot soldier invited me to
do a collab recently foot soldier can't
cooperate with me in any of these kinds
of projects not hitting him he does his
little limited thing he's not going to
take on lobbying City Hall or the school
boards or leather or do an education
project labor labor rights and they
immediately or a third party so do you
see the couple people I know who are
still positive you know sure that to
them I don't think like I appreciate
that but but a lot of this you work
within because yeah like he said even if
it is yea conceivable that he would do
lobbying in where he lives
you don't live in the UK so it's like
yeah he lives in Spain actually right
yeah yeah oh yeah he's British real
lives me okay
I'm not dealing I'm just saying you know
okay okay I was just saying like that is
the one positive route that I can see
where like I still think you could write
children's literature then it's
basically like propaganda the video
right because that's get somebody
involved that could do animation to
animate this might be something more
like nobody's room like I loved I loved
the idea of Mister Rogers and I love
that show when I was a kid growing up
and I like having something like
something as simple as that but with
like puppets but talked about veganism
talking about and you you could do music
but the save you the background of music
medicine talk but look um you could be
an author alone you can't you can't do
politics alone you can't that's the
difference right however would you
rather be an author alone would you
rather be an author with the support of
a couple thousand people on the internet
makes a huge difference
right so yeah I mean that's another
sense in which this engagement in the
last five years has really been a
failure and I gotta look at it
negatively to say something slightly
positive you know in the earlier video I
said well my life would be better now if
I'd put the five years into Cree or a
chip way or Navajo or you know something
like that indigenous peoples languages
and yeah and education of politics I
free I think I all say well Cambodia is
an example you know one of the reasons
why I did put all this time into
veganism was the type of person I wanted
to be colleagues with and it's people
like you Melissa
but I wouldn't have met you through
doing Korean a jib way I wouldn't have
met you through doing Cambodia and I
know I know what Needham I have enough
experience with those examples you know
and I wouldn't met you through Brit ISM
so you know that's that's a factor
however coming back to a point you made
earlier what kind of people do you meet
through learning Chinese as a language
or doing Chinese and language
Gatien Chinese and politics of Asia and
you were just saying earlier you think
we'll meet better people hold you up she
has experienced this now too
the quality of people the type of people
you meet through Chinese Chinese
politics Chinese language education so
in reality there's another judgment then
people that we meet in Canada who
happened to be from China
the hope was definitely that I wouldn't
just meet you that I'd have a bunch of
people in my life yeah you know because
I really felt and sometimes things
remind me back when veganism wasn't the
main thing in my life I was still so
passionate about it and when I happened
to meet people who were vegetarian or
vegan you know within the field I was
working in within whatever it was but as
a more Asian Studies or politics
whatever I'd be so eager to try to meet
them because I felt extremely alienated
ethically from the people who were not
vegetarian or not vegan and I've always
felt that that sense of moral purpose is
so fundamental to life and should
motivate us to work together and
accomplish great things that I was
really optimistic with the type of
people I meet met and what would come
out of meeting them okay guys that's it
the good and the bad if you want more
videos where Melissa does the majority
of the talking gives that give this a
thumbs up and give this a positive
comment because it hangs in the balance
what percentage of a Bala CL is Melissa
on the microphone thanks babe things
coming on Michael again yeah